BENEFITS OF CACHING
1. It improves performance
2. It scalability and throughput of the application or API

When we mean scalability we mean that transactions be handled by database from 30/sec to 50/sec.

The idea of caching is if it as close as to the API consumer higher shall be the performance and scalability



WHAT TO CACHE?
We need to keep in mind three factors
1. Speed of Data Change
2. Time Sensitivity of the data you are caching
3. Security of the data.

Static contents 
Speed of Data Change: such as HTML/ JPEG/ PDF etc are not prone to change as frequently and they do not contain
time sensitive data : They do not contain any time sensitive data 
Security : it is not an issue for them
Thus they can be cached for longer period of times.

With API we are dealing with dyanamic data and not static data.
For dynamic data these factors(Speed of change / time sensitivity / security) is very critical.

Let's take a couple of examples

Example 1: Stock Market
Speed of Change :is very rapid 
Time Sensitivity:to make the latest bid we need always the latest information
Security        : is important since we dont want any one else to know which stock options are trading on.

Example 2: news articles
Speed of Change : articles are published on minutes basis
Time Sensitivity: It is not time sensitive in the sense that even if we dont read then it will be a greater loss
Security        : It is not a problem since all the articles are published in the public domain

Example 3: Customer profile
Speed of Change : The data might not be changing on a daily basis
Time Sensitivity:If the customer data is changing and the profile is not reflecting in the call it might not
be a big deal but for some enterprises it might be a big deal
Security        : It is very high for customer profile.


Which component shall control the caching?
Answer: OUR API

What to Cache?
Depends on three factors discussed above and depending on it we should be caching information.
 
Who can cache?
Whether our application can cache or not or intermediaries can cache or not or API can cache or not


For how long the data is cached for?
It depends on the factor of speed of change. If it is not being changed frequently then we can cache it for
longer times.


CACHE CONTROL DIRECTIVES
They are present in rfc2616
https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc2616#section-13

They allow the API developer or designer to control the caching behavior of the application.
With the cache control directives the API designer can control 
1. Who can cache
2. How long the data can be cached for
3. under what conditions the data can be cached

Cache control header can be setup with multiple directives.
These directives can be used as a comma seperated list.







